at least nine people have died in the
biggest Israeli military operation in
the occupied West Bank for 20 years last
month the international court of justice
ruled that Israel's continued occupation
of the area captured in 1967 breached
international law violence has been
increasing in the West Bank since the
Hamas attacks of October the 7th with
the UN saying more than 650 Palestinians
have been killed and that there's been
violence against Israelis this latest
massive operation involved Israeli
forces simultaneously entering the
cities of Janine tulam nablo and tubas
in what the Defense Forces called a
counterterrorism strike from Janine Lucy
Williamson sent this
report it was a message of force
delivered quietly at first Israeli
soldiers seeking their targets Street by
Palestinian
Street by morning hundreds of troops
backed by armored bulldozers had arrived
in the refugee camps of taram nablas
toas
Janine home to Armed Palestinian groups
and unarmed
civilians at least 10 Palestinians have
been killed Hamas says six of them were
its
Fighters massud Naja said he was injured
when he opened the door of his house to
young men asking for
water we felt like something came down
on us from the sky and there was an
explosion I was unaware of what was
going on when I put my hand on my chest
it was all shrapnel in
blood in Janine army vehicles surrounded
the city's two main hospitals ambulances
stopped and checked by military Jeeps
Israel's foreign minister has urged his
government to use Gaza as a model for
dealing with armed groups here saying
that Iran was backing them and that this
was a war for everything that Israel
must win the IDF and our security forces
are operating in tarim Janine and other
places from which murderous attacks have
been launched we will fight to eliminate
terrorism wherever it
emerges almost 600 Palestinians have
been killed in the West Bank by Israeli
forces since the Hamas attacks but
Fighters here are still presenting
Israel with new tactics and new threats
Israel's Army has been targeting the
same areas in the same cities week after
week for the past 10 months determined
to dismantle the armed Palestinian
groups based here now it's launched a
wider more coordinated operation across
the West Bank on a scale not seen for 20
years in alfar camp near tubas mobile
phone footage showed showed red cresant
staff lined up against the wall of their
compound in front of Israeli
troops arriving in Janine today the West
Bank head of the red cresant you've had
10 months of these sorts of incursions
how worried are you by what's happening
today I'm very much worried because it
seems there's a new stage there's a new
uh they are escalating scaling up their
operation when they talk about
evacuating civilians
and using the Air Force to bombing the
camps this reminds us of
Gazza as night fell explosions and
gunfire from Janine's refugee camp dusk
can be a signal to test the Army's
control the war in Gaza is changing this
conflict an old front creating new fears
in the face of a regional War Lucy
Williamson BBC News
Janine and Jeremy boen is with me our
International editor Jeremy another
escalation in this region yeah um West
Bank at Boiling Point um now if you
listen to what Israel says they say it's
all about Iran Iran is behind uh an
increase in Palestinian violence armed
groups well it's no secret that Iran
does support Palestinian armed groups
someone has to pay for their their
Weaponry there's no question question
about that but why escalate now when
Israel has been hitting these same
places for months and months and months
and arresting thousands of people
killing hundreds well the root of it is
is of course the long conflict over
control of the land between Israelis and
Palestinians uh there's Politics as well
uh Netanyahu is said very emphatically
there will never be a Palestinian State
uh the Palestinians want this land the
West Bank as a big part of theirs so by
I think by doing this prime minister
Netanyahu is weakening the Palestinian
Authority which does want a Palestinian
State and which the Americans say should
be a big part of the future not just in
the West Bank but in Gaza which again
that is something Netanyahu is very much
against so weakening his enemies there
in the Palestinian State and also today
as well part of the the the growth of
violence has been the activities of
armed settlers the Americans sanctions
the settler group and a notorious
settler leader today saying extremist
settler violence causes intense human
suffering is bad for Israel's security
Now um last Point really that the
Israeli government's position is that
all this land is Jewish land
Palestinians disagree they want it as
part of their state but what's happening
right now is that it's on fire